Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramsey_number
Retrieved: 2026-09-08
Original response SHA256: 71f3027c2b716654a45a7e398458e4599e8ee81dc992a4fa170acc7abbaae1d1
Section: Definition

The numbers R ( r , s ) in Ramsey's theorem (and their extensions to more than two colours) are known as Ramsey numbers. The Ramsey number R ( m , n ) gives the solution to the party problem, which asks the minimum number of guests, R ( m , n ) , that must be invited so that at least m will know each other or at least n will not know each other. In the language of graph theory, the Ramsey number is the minimum number of vertices, v = R ( m , n ) , such that all undirected simple graphs of order v , contain a clique of order m , or an independent set of order n . Ramsey's theorem states that such a number exists for all m and n . By symmetry, it is true that R ( m , n ) = R ( n , m ) . An upper bound for R ( r , s ) can be extracted from the proof of the theorem, and other arguments give lower bounds. (The first exponential lower bound was obtained by Paul Erdős using the probabilistic method .) However, there is a vast gap between the tightest lower bounds and the tightest upper bounds. There are also very few numbers r and s for which we know the exact value of R ( r , s ) . Computing a lower bound L for R ( r , s ) usually requires exhibiting a blue/red colouring of the graph K L −1 with no blue K r subgraph and no red K s subgraph. Such a counterexample is called a Ramsey graph . Brendan McKay maintains a list of known Ramsey graphs. [ 4 ] Upper bounds are often considerably more difficult to establish: one either has to check all possible colourings to confirm the absence of a counterexample, or to present a mathematical argument for its absence. Computational complexity [ edit ] Erdős asks us to imagine an alien force, vastly more powerful than us, landing on Earth and demanding the value of R (5, 5) or they will destroy our planet. In that case, he claims, we should marshal all our computers and all our mathematicians and attempt to find the value. But suppose, instead, that they ask for R (6, 6) . In that case, he believes, we should attempt to destroy the aliens. [ 5 ] — Joel Spencer A sophisticated computer program does not need to look at all colourings individually in order to eliminate all of them; nevertheless it is a very difficult computational task that existing software can only manage on small sizes. Each complete graph K n has ⁠ 1 / 2 ⁠ n ( n − 1) edges, so there would be a total of c n ( n − 1)/2 graphs to search through (for c colours) if brute force is used. [ 6 ] Therefore, the complexity for searching all possible graphs (via brute force ) is O ( c n 2 ) for c colourings and at most n nodes. The situation is unlikely to improve with the advent of quantum computers .  One of the best-known searching algorithms for unstructured datasets exhibits only a quadratic speedup ( cf. Grover's algorithm ) relative to classical computers, so that the computation time is still exponential in the number of nodes. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] 
